# 1.5 - Fundamentals of Law Enforcemen

**Dedication** \
All Officers must understand that:&#x20;

* They should strive to obtain goals for self, and peer improvement.
* They are expected to perform at their highest potential by striving for individual objectives while putting forth maximum effort.&#x20;
* They are expected to have pride in themselves and take ownership, responsibility, and passion of their work.

**Cooperation**\
****All Officers must understand that:&#x20;

* It will be expected that all Officers of the LSPD will lead by example and be willing and able to assist any agency. We must recognize that the cooperation of all law enforcement agencies is critical for effective, efficient, and responsive law enforcement.

**Integrity**\
****All Officers must understand that:&#x20;

* Understand that the integrity of law enforcement must never be compromised. The integrity as a law enforcement Officer must be at our highest possible standards. We must constantly be willing and actively trying to reach the highest standards of honesty and integrity.

**Professional Responsibility**\
****All Officers must understand that:&#x20;

* Strive to meet the responsibilities of their assigned job duties, to be responsible for their actions and accountable to their supervisors and to the citizens they serve.
* Set goals and precisely measure objectives within a time limit that supports the achievement of these goals.
* Know the laws and rules that will aid them in performing their duties and serving the public. Strive for individual improvement.
* Be able to detect problems within their job assignments and be capable of making decisions in response to those issues such as problem solving, crime reduction, traffic safety, and police partnerships.
* Enhance their level of technical knowledge, training, and education.

**Community Responsiveness**\
****All Officers must understand that:&#x20;

* Understand that service is the primary purpose of our profession.
* Exhibit a compassionate and responsive attitude toward the community and express a genuine desire to satisfy the needs of the citizens of this county.
* This can be accomplished through establishing partnerships within the community to reduce crime, make our roads safer and provide assistance to the public.
* Understand that community support will result when trust and confidence is established within our community.

**Innovation** \
The Los Santos Police Department will value innovation from all levels. The Los Santos Police Department will strive to keep pace with the latest methods and technology through continuous training and education. All employees must understand the importance of creating a work environment that encourages innovation, input, and participation.

**Department Goals**\
****All Officers must understand that:&#x20;

* Provide the best in quality service to earn the highest respect and confidence from the citizens of San Andreas
* Provide public service through individual attention with empathy, integrity and professionalism.
* Identify areas in which public safety can be enhanced.
* Be leaders in the area of responsibility and accountability by exercising the maximum effort toward reaching the Department’s mission.
* Treat all citizens and fellow employees in a fair and equitable manner without regard to race, gender, religion, national origin, physical or mental disability, or sexual orientation.
* Reduce crime, make roadways safe, and provide assistance to the public in the most professional manner.
* Be conscious of how they manage their resources and to focus their activities with the greatest impact on the Department’s priorities.
* Utilize the best available technology to meet the demands of its employees and the citizens that they serve.

**As members of the Los Santos Police Department, we must constantly be cognizant of our future expectations. We must work together, plan and strive for excellence realizing that the daily decisions that are made will reflect on the future of our department.**

****
