---
description: >-
  Case management is an ongoing process involving all members of the Department.
  Proper case management facilitates the scope and direction of the
  investigation, in addition to providing documentation
---

# Case Management

Complaint/ Information

All criminal information that is reported to the Department shall be evaluated for appropriate action. Minimum information required from the original source shall include:

* Name; Address
* Telephone number(s)
* Date of birth
* Nature of the complaint.

**Complaint Information's**

Every case assigned or initiated shall be entered into the Bureau Tickets/[Daily Administrative Journal](https://forms.gle/7sZSZPDQ5RZ8jEBp6) to be maintained by all Divisions/Sections/Units. Minimum complaint information to be entered shall include:

* Complaint number
* Date of entry
* Case received by
* Complainant's name and address
* Nature of complaint
* Investigating member
* Date of case assignment
* Date report forwarded
* Report number.

**Case Number**

The Division of Field Services all case numbers shall be generated by RAMS

All other cases shall be assigned:&#x20;

* A number beginning with the year in which the case was initiated
* A second sequence of numbers reflecting the section/unit's assigned code
* A third sequence of numbers reflecting National Crime Information Center (NCIC) offense code
* A fourth sequence of numbers representing the consecutively assigned case number given in the order that the case is received.

Example: Case number: 19-0903-0123:&#x20;

19 - Year (2019)

0903 -[ NCIC code](http://offensecodes.com/ncic)

0123 - Case number.

**Case Responsibility**

Assignment of a case shall be to a single member who shall:&#x20;

* Be responsible for the reports on the case
* Account for evidence
* Coordinate the investigative activity and information.

This does not preclude the assignment of additional personnel, nor does it impair the ability of the supervisor(s) to direct investigative efforts or reporting.

**Case File**

Department Section/Units shall:&#x20;

1. Maintain a case file system utilizing the case number as the primary filing method
2. Index case numbers through the DAJ.

Review/ Approval Process

Reports shall be:&#x20;

* Reviewed by the reporting member for completeness and accuracy prior to submission
* Reviewed by a supervisor after submission for completeness and accuracy
* Sent back for further investigation if necessary.

Upon Approval a Supervisor shall:

Affix an Approval Stamp

* Affix an Approval Stamp
* Ensure the case number is written in and a sequential serial number recorded
* Enter the date and their initials on the stamp.

**Case Suspension**

Division/Section/Unit Commanders shall:

* Approve a request to suspend a case by recommendation of the case member when:

1. Every reasonable avenue of investigation has been pursued and exhausted
2. There is a lack of further leads or solvability factors
3. Investigative resources are unavailable due to current workload
4. The seriousness of the crime is insufficient to justify continued investigative efforts.

* Ensure that the suspension does not preclude the case from being reopened for any reason.

Note: Certain cases, due to their serious nature, are not eligible for suspended status (e.g., murder, armed robbery).

**Case Termination**

Only the Division **** Commander shall approve requests to close a case and should consider, at the minimum, the following criteria in determining if a case merits termination:

* Seriousness of criminal offense
* Availability of investigative resources
* Unfounded complaint
* Complainant's refusal to cooperate
* Referral to Marshals
* Declination by prosecutor
* Adjudication completed
* Administrative closing.
