# Section 4 - Department Code of Conduct

Members of the San Andreas State Police shall be courteous and respectful to the public and co-workers. Our encounters should be predicated upon civility and the appropriate use of a trooper's discretion based upon the totality of the circumstances. Members of San Andreas State Police should avoid abusive, profane language or gestures and actions that bring disrespect upon the Department or members of the community. This includes unreasonable orders, or warnings not within the lawful scope of the member’s authority.

Should a member of the public request identification from a trooper at any time, the Officers shall provide their full name, badge number and show their department issued identification card at the earliest safe opportunity to do so. Exceptions include requests where the Officer feels his identification would pose a threat to himself.

Members of San Andreas State Police shall not solicit or accept, either directly or indirectly, any gift, reward, gratuity, loan, material thing, or benefit from any person or business, which, through a conflict of interest, might be in a position to benefit by such action. Department members are prohibited from using their official positions, badges, or official identification for personal or financial gain or for obtaining privileges not otherwise available to them.

Members of San Andreas State Police shall not request or use the aid of any person, group, or organization outside the department for the purpose of obtaining rank or position within the department or to secure restoration to rank, position, or assignment.

Any San Andreas State Police employee that engages in harassment on the basis of race, sex, religion, color, age, handicap, national origin, or sexual orientation; or who permits employees under his/her supervision to engage in such harassment; or who retaliates or permits retaliation against an employee who reports such harassment is guilty of misconduct. Supervisors are required to report to follow the chain of command and refer to a member of SASP Command. Complaints of harassment will be examined impartially and resolved promptly within the structure of the Department’s complaint policy.

Members of the San Andreas State Police shall act to preserve the rights of all. Any intentional acts based solely upon an individual’s membership, association, identification or protected class is a violation of equal protection and prohibited by federal and state law.

Members of the San Andreas State Police shall not publicly criticize the operations or personnel of the Department if such criticism clearly undermines the discipline, morale or general efficiency of the Department. The Department recognizes that its members retain rights to expression and freedom of speech granted by the Constitution, whether on- or off-duty; however, these rights do not allow for conduct which is disruptive to the function of the public’s business. Generally, conduct prohibited by this regulation includes critical public statements or overt actions regarding specific employees, orders, or operations, and includes abusive or deliberately constructed false criticism.

Members of the Department shall promptly obey lawful orders from any supervisor. Should such orders conflict with a previous order, policy, or procedure of the Department, the ordered member shall respectfully call attention to the conflict. If, however, the last order is not changed, it shall stand and the person obeying the order will not be held responsible. If any unlawful order is given to any member of the Department, such members will promptly report such fact to a higher-ranking Officer.
