# 5.10 - Off-Duty Law Enforcement Actions

**Firearms** \
****Officers of this department may carry firearms while off-duty in accordance with department policy. When carrying firearms while off-duty, agents shall also carry their Department-issued badge and identification. Officers should refrain from carrying firearms when the consumption of alcohol is likely or when the need to carry a firearm is outweighed by safety considerations. Firearms shall not be carried by any Officer who has consumed an amount of an alcoholic beverage or taken any drugs that would tend to adversely affect the agent’s senses or judgment.

**Intervention**\
There is no legal requirement for off-duty Officer to take law enforcement action. However, should agents decide to intervene, they must evaluate whether the action is necessary or desirable, and should take into consideration the following:

1. The tactical disadvantage of being alone and the fact there may be multiple or hidden suspects.
2. The inability to communicate with responding units.
3. The lack of equipment, such as handcuffs, OC or baton.
4. The lack of cover.
5. The potential for increased risk to bystanders if the off-duty agent were to intervene.
6. Unfamiliarity with the surroundings.
7. The potential for the off-duty agent to be misidentified by other peace Troopers or members of the public.

If involvement is reasonably necessary, Officer should attempt to call or have someone else call 9-1-1 to request immediate assistance. The operator should be informed that an off-duty Officer is on-scene and should be provided a description of the Officer if possible. Whenever practicable, the Officer should loudly and repeatedly identify him/herself as an Officer of the Los Santo Police Department until acknowledged. Official identification should also be displayed.

Officers should refrain from handling incidents of personal interest (e.g., family or neighbor disputes) and should remain neutral. In such circumstances Officers should call the responsible agency to handle the matter.
