# 5.11 - Non Emergency Driving: Code 1 and 2 Operations

There are two standards of driving for responding to calls or situations that are not of an emergency nature. The first of these is code 1 response, in which a Officer responds to a call “at their earliest convenience”. Such a call does not require immediate police presence and does not pose a risk of injury or death to those at the scene. During this response, Officers are not required to respond to said call with urgency and may alter their course and or response to deal with any situation that may emerge such as a speeding driver, request for additional, stranded vehicle or civilian flag down.

The second of these standards is code 2 (Urgent Response) response in which Officers are required to respond to the call as a matter of priority where a police presence is needed in a timely or urgent manner. Despite requiring an expedient response to the call, the situation does not pose an immediate risk of injury or death to anyone at the scene. Officers should proceed directly to the scene when discreet to respond code 2. They shall not alter their response in any way, unless a situation develops around them that without their intervention has the potential to cause serious injury or death.

**Code 1** - Use of Warning devices are not authorized. Officers are to adhere to all rules and regulators such as speed limits, traffic lights, stop signal or stop signs.

**Code 2** - (Urgent Response) - Use of Warning devices at Officers discretion. The driver of an authorized emergency vehicle responding code 2 may:

Proceed past a red or stop signal or stop sign, but only after slowing down as may be required and necessary for safe operation. \
Exceed the maximum speed limits as long as operative does not endanger life or property. \
Disregard regulations governing direction of movement or turning in specified directions. (Doesn't apply to all cases)
