# 5.12 - Emergency Driving: Code 3 Operations

Code 3 responses are those which require an immediate and expedited response to a call or situation that are of an emergency nature. These calls are defined as those where a lack of Officer intervention has the potential to result in injury or death to anyone at the scene or there is an immediate need for a police presence. While operating their vehicle code 3, Officers are required to utilize their lights and sirens and proceed as quickly as safely possible to the scene. While responding code 3, Officers are not required to operate their vehicles in accordance with road rules and regulations, however, are still responsible for the safety of other drivers and

pedestrians on and around the area in which they drive. As such Officers shall take the utmost care to avoid collision or risks of collision. While operating a vehicle code three, Officers shall remain on the appropriate side of the road unless it is blocked or otherwise obstructed. Should Officers need to cross to the opposite lane of travel, they shall check to ensure the opposite lane is clear of oncoming traffic before entering said lane. **AT​ ​NO​ ​STAGE​ ​IN​ ​RESPONSE**​ ​shall​ ​a​ Officer​ ​utilize any​ ​oncoming​ ​lane​ ​that​ ​is​ ​not​ ​directly​ ​next​ ​to​ ​an​ ​appropriate​ ​lane​ ​of​ ​travel,​ ​unless​ ​that lane​ ​shall​ ​be​ ​used​ ​to​ ​directly​ ​turn​ ​onto​ ​a​ ​side​ ​road​ ​that​ ​is​ ​enterable​ ​from​ ​the​ ​correct lane​ ​of​ ​travel​ ​at​ ​an​ ​intersection​. When approaching a yellow light, red light, stop sign or yield sign, Officer shall reduce speed with the intention to come to a complete stop before the intersection until they are completely and reasonably certain that said intersection is clear of current or imminent traffic at that intersection, after which they may proceed through it regardless of any traffic control devices. In addition, Officers shall refrain from utilizing any footpath or other surface where vehicles are not otherwise permitted (such as a median strip or shoulder) unless there is no other option to reach their destination (such as when there is a blocked intersection). Once an appropriate lane of travel becomes available, Officers shall return to that lane.
