# 5.19 - Pursuit Policy

When engaging in a pursuit, Officers must ensure the safety of the public and themselves. As such, specific  care must be taken to ensure the prevention of collisions with motorists, other Officers, and suspects, and Officer will operate with utmost regard for public safety and responsibly during Emergency Operation. Operation that may seem grossly endangering the public shall be warranted and carried out with the utmost responsibility and caution. Emergency Operation may require that an Officer drive in inherently dangerous means, such as against the opposite direction of travel, however the operation in itself is not a policy violation, but rather when the Officer acts in a blatant manner that would cause unavoidable harm to themselves or others or otherwise deemed grossly negligent and without warranting scenario. Officers are liable to Disciplinary Action if they cause an accident, injury, or death when driving in Emergency Operation. The apprehension of suspects is secondary to both Public and Officer Safety.

In addition to these requirements, the following measures are to be adhered to in order to facilitate both Officer safety and effective apprehension of suspects: When a pursuit is initiated, the pursuing Officer shall immediately through radio notify Communications of the pursuit with the subject vehicle, the location of them pursuit, and the direction of travel. Primary Officer shall Terminate a Pursuit prior to the attachment or arrival of a secondary unit or supervisor A Supervisor shall be immediately attached to the pursuit and coordinate the proper response: Required Assistance - How many Units are required Available Assets, such as Airship. Alternate Pursuit Ending Techniques. The Supervisor shall be in command of the Pursuit and shall be notified of any attaching units **(MAX OF 4)**, possible ending techniques, and any other communication related to the Pursuit. A Supervisor shall Terminate the Pursuit if the risk to public safety is too great.

An Airship shall activate and be attached to assist, if possible, Ground Units will then seek Alternate Pursuit Ending Techniques Airships shall assume control of the Radio Transmissions pertaining to the pursuit

Pursuing Units shall seek alternate pursuit ending techniques as frequently as possible Tire Deflation Tactics Roadblocks Pursuit Intervention Techniques (PIT) shall be utilized as safely and efficiently as possible. In the event the suspects commit a violent felony. In the event of a Foot Bail, the Supervisor shall coordinate appropriate measures to track, locate, and apprehend the suspect(s). Airship shall clear off at the request or permission of the Supervisor Units shall clear off at the request or permission of the Supervisor
