# 5.6 - Moving Vehicles

1. Officers shall not discharge their firearms FROM a moving vehicle unless the Officers are being fired upon. Shooting accurately from a moving vehicle is extremely difficult and therefore, unlikely to successfully stop a threat of another person.
2. Discharging a firearm at a moving vehicle by an Officer is prohibited, except to defend himself or another when the Officer reasonably believes there is an immediate threat of great bodily harm to the Officer or others, and the Officer reasonably believes that he will not endanger innocent persons. \
   **2.1** A moving vehicle alone shall not presumptively constitute a threat that justifies an Officers use of deadly force. \
   **2.2** Officer shall not move into or remain in the path of a moving vehicle. Moving into or remaining in the path of a moving vehicle, whether deliberate or inadvertent, **SHALL NOT** be justification for discharging a firearm at the vehicle or any of its occupants. A Officer in the path of an approaching vehicle shall attempt to move to a position of safety rather than discharging a firearm at the vehicle or any of the occupants of the vehicle.
3. Firing strictly to disable a vehicle is prohibited.
4. Firearms shall not be utilized when the circumstances do not provide a high probability of striking the intended target, or when there is substantial risk to the safety of other persons, including risks associated with vehicle accidents.
5. Discharging your weapon from an immobilized or non-moving vehicle is not a policy violation.
