# 5.8 - 10-99 - Officer in Distress

Panic Button Activation

1. The field unit will press F6 (default key bind) to active the radios panic.&#x20;
2. Radio will BEEP and will display GPS Location of the field unit.
3. Trooper shall not activate their panic button more than once, unless directly necessary or unless specifically requested.&#x20;

Panic Button Procedures

1. Upon the receipt of an Panic button activation with no voice, the unit will be called on the Radio by a supervisor after the Panic button activation was received and request them to provide their status.
2. If there is no response from the Officer, the appropriate announcement shall be made on radio by the supervisor. Example of an announcement is as follows: “{Unit Callsign} to all units, {unit number} is calling Officer in Distress (location), all available units immediately respond code 3 to the location.”

If no Officer acknowledges, treat as an Officer in Distress.

Upon the receipt of an Panic Button Activation with no voice from an Officer not on the scene of an incident, the Officer will be asked for their status by a supervisor. If there is no response from the Officer, the appropriate announcement will be made on the Radio. All Available Law Enforcement Units will respond to the Incident The first unit to Locate the Officer in Distress will Update Communications of the appropriate information 3. If the Officer is located, the announcement will be broadcast on the radio with the updated information on the location following the same procedure mentioned above for Officer Needs Assistance. 4. If the Officer cannot be located, keep trying to contact them via radio, cell phone, pager or any other known resource.

Accidental Activation

1. Field Unit that has accidentally activated his panic button, shall make an appropriate announcement via radio. Example of an announcement is as follows: “{Unit Callsign} Disregard last call for the Officer in Distress, accidental activation of my panic button.”
2. Field Unit must reply to his status call on radio stating that the situation is under control and no response is required.
